Extended readme (#1)
JuliaSmoothOptimizers/.github: profile/README.md

</p>

# Welcome to JuliaSmoothOptimizers (JSO)

> We are a group of researchers in numerical linear algebra and optimization interested in cutting-edge and original solvers.
> JSO contains a collection of packages to model, solve, benchmark and analyze results efficiently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSO is an organization dedicated to numerical linear algebra and optimization, containing packages to model, solve, benchmark and analyze results efficiently.
We aim, among other things, to provide cutting-edge and original solvers and tools for researchers.
```
I would remove it because I don't think "we" should refer to people, i.e., the "we" = organization > us.
Also, I am not a researcher in these fields anymore, and also because it defines our interests.

The list of aims should be discussed, but I prefer to have something now and update it later.

One of our simplest package for new contributers is [OptimizationProblems.jl](https://juliasmoothoptimizers.github.io/OptimizationProblems.jl/dev/contributing/).

## Looking for tutorials

🥋: All the packages have their own documentation. You can also access the [tutorial section of JSO's website](https://juliasmoothoptimizers.github.io/tutorials/)

🎬: Follow [@abelsiqueira's youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOOY0eChA1uxmm8G2caFpdX7X9NjgpDUY) for more tutorials in videos!

Feel free to open an issue or a discussion if you can't find answers to your questions.

## Looking for a package?

JuliaSmoothOptimizers contains several packages for modeling and solving linear algebra and optimization problems.
The optimization solvers all rely on a unified API to communicate with the models, which is the [NLPModels API](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/NLPModels.jl).

You might also be interest in [SolverBenchmark.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/SolverBenchmark.jl) to easily compare your solver via performance profiles or tables available in LaTeX or markdown format!

> ### Linear algebra

Reviewer: I think we should talk only about the core packages here, and move the extra information to the website. Otherwise, the first contact is too overwhelming.

Instead of focusing on the package, we could focus on the target audience:
- "I want to solve a linear system" -> Go here
- "I want to solve an optimization problem" -> Go here
- "I want to build an optimization method" -> Go here

Author: That's probably better, I think we are missing a couple of things there maybe. I would say
- "I want to solve a linear system" -> Krylov.jl (but it doesn't highlight the factorizations)
- "I want to solve an optimization problem" -> JSOSuite.jl
- "I want to build an optimization method" -> SolverCore.jl (after https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/SolverCore.jl/issues/32 )

Reviewer 2: I agree that it's better to focus on the what the user is trying to do.

For now, we should just list the relevant packages in each category. In time, I would like to have "meta packages" that bring together related packages (Krylov/MUMPS/HSL/LDL/QRMumps, JSOSolver/NLPModelsIpopt/NLPModelsKnitro/NCL/DCI/etc, SolverBenchmark/BenchmarkProfile/etc, ...). We'll update this README as we go.

Author: Thanks for the feedback. I made an issue for this https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/.github/issues/2 and added @dpo suggestions.

> - Efficient modelisation of linear systems 🤠: [LinearOperators.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/LinearOperators.jl), [SparseMatricesCOO.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/SparseMatricesCOO.jl), [LLSModels.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/LLSModels.jl)

Reviewer 2: `sed -e s/modelisation/modeling/g`

- Solving linear systems with iterative methods 🥳: [Krylov.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/Krylov.jl) 
- Compute matrix factorization 👾: [LDLFactorizations.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/LDLFactorizations.jl), [LimitedLDLFactorizations.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/LimitedLDLFactorizations.jl), [HSL.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/HSL.jl), [MUMPS.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/MUMPS.jl), [QRMumps.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/QRMumps.jl)

> - Preconditionner: [BasicLU.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/BasicLU.jl)

Reviewer 2: LimitedLDL would be here, not in factorizations.

> - Test problems 🤼: [SuiteSparseMatrixCollection.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/SuiteSparseMatrixCollection.jl)

Reviewer 2: Test systems.

### Quadratic optimization problems

- Model the problem with quadratic objective and linear constraints 🦸: [QuadraticModels.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/QuadraticModels.jl), [QPSReader.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/QPSReader.jl)
- Solve quadratic models 🎅: [RipQP.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/RipQP.jl), [QuadraticModelsCPLEX.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/QuadraticModelsCPLEX.jl), [QuadraticModelsXpress.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/QuadraticModelsXpress.jl), [QuadraticModelsGurobi.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/QuadraticModelsGurobi.jl)

### (Nonlinear) Least squares

- Model nonlinear least squares 🧙: [ADNLPModels.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/ADNLPModels.jl), [NLPModelsJuMP](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/NLPModelsJuMP.jl) 
- Solvers specific for nonlinear least squares 🧐: [CaNNOLeS.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/CaNNOLeS.jl), [JSOSolvers](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/JSOSolvers.jl)

> - Test problems 🤺: [NLSProblems.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/NLSProblems.jl), [OptimizationProblems.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/OptimizationProblems.jl)

Reviewer 2: and BundleAdjustment

### Generic optimization problems 🤯

> - Model general optimization problems 💪: [ADNLPModels.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/ADNLPModels.jl), [NLPModelsJuMP](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/NLPModelsJuMP.jl), [AmplNLReader.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/AmplNLReader.jl)

Reviewer 2: I would put JuMP, AMPL and CUTEst in a category "load models from other modeling systems"

- Solvers for unconstrained and bound-constrained models 👍: [JSOSolvers](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/JSOSolvers.jl)
- Solve generic optimization problems 🤘: [DCISolver.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/DCISolver.jl), [NLPModelsIpopt.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/NLPModelsIpopt.jl), [NLPModelsKnitro.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/NLPModelsKnitro.jl), [Percival.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/Percival.jl)
- Collection of test problems 🤖: [CUTEst.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/CUTEst.jl), [OptimizationProblems.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/OptimizationProblems.jl), , 

### So good, they can't be classified 🙀

- Interface to Knet.jl 🦄: [KnetNLPModels.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/KnetNLPModels.jl)

> - Model PDE-constrained optimization problems 🧘: [PDENLPModels.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/PDENLPModels.jl)

Reviewer 2: These two would go into the modeling section.

- Repository of bundle adjustment problems 📷: [BundleAdjustmentModels.jl)](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/BundleAdjustmentModels.jl)

> - Minimum degree ordering 🦅: [AMD.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSmoothOptimizers/AMD.jl)

Reviewer 2: AMD would go with the factorizations.
